------------
# Motivation
------------

While brainstorming ideas for this project (a text-based space-themed RPG, student budget tracking were others...), we discovered a mutual interest in artificial intelligence (Adam has even created genetic algorithms in the past!) - a very related field. Cellular automata, defined by a simple ruleset, reduce the complexity of the growth, reproduction, and evolution of AI to basic laws (or rules). The computation of a cellular automaton is actually quite trivial - which makes it very suitable for a web application. To our knowledge (i.e. a quick Google search), there is no easy to use yet flexible environment to experiment with cellular automata without having to download a client. Although many web applets exist for simulating perhaps the most popular cellular automaton, Conway's Game of Life (see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life), there did not seem to be one to generate your own rulesets. With _cella_, we hoped to develop an application that would "get you hooked", so to speak, on cellular automata. With _cella_, you don't need to download or install anything other than enabling JavaScript - this is less intimidating for someone new to the concept of cellular automata. Much of the software out there has a fairly complex interface - _cella_ is minimalistic; users can add to the complexity of their maps/rulesets at their own pace. Initially, we had hoped to create a public database of configurations and rule sets; this would provide the community aspect - you could learn, experiment, and share amongst others.